ABSTRACT:
One of the best ways to prevent troublesome traffic bottlenecks is to synchronize traffic light systems. When it comes to traffic management,
timing of the traffic is a crucial consideration. Non synchronized traffic light systems are one of the primary reasons for traffic
bottlenecks. When a light turns green, traffic starts to move, but when it gets to the next light, the signal is still in the red.
This will stop the flow of traffic continuously, especially on major thoroughfares. To clear congested traffic in a certain amount of time,
a key route's traffic flow must be smooth. In order to properly re-time traffic signals along the researched road, the study looked at the 
vehicle density as well as the timing of the traffic. The findings of this study are consistent with the claim that synchronizing traffic 
lights on major highways will significantly enhance traffic flow by retiming signal lights. The signals will be retimed according to the 
density of the road. It uses the libraries in python for generating the output.

EXSISTING SYSTEM:
The exiting traffic system is generally controlled by the traffic police. The main drawback of this system controlled by the traffic police
is that the system is not smart enough to deal with the traffic congestion. The traffic police official can either block a road for more
amount of time or let the vehicles on another road pass by i.e. the decision making may not be smart enough and it entirely depends on the
official’s decision. Moreover, even if traffic lights are used the time interval for which the vehicles will be showed green or red signal 
is fixed. Therefore, it may not be able to solve the problem of traffic congestion. In India, it has been seen that even after the presence
of traffic lights, traffic police officials are on duty, which means that in this system more manpower is required and it is not economical
in nature. The disadvantages include traffic congestion, no means to detect the traffic congestion, number of accidents are more, it 
requires man power and not economical.

PROPOSED SYSTEM:
The proposed solution for Traffic synchronization involves sensors that collect real time data from the intersection that has the smart 
signals installed. Based on the density of cars, the width of the road, and the average speed of each lane, the time slice for each
signal to turn green is calculated. The system is indirectly used by the people driving vehicles as it does not get direct input from 
them. Our model will allocate smartly the time period of green light for each road. We have chosen image processing for calculation of
traffic density as cameras are very much cheaper than other devices such as sensors. But their presence on a road adds to the traffic
density input that is to be used by the system. The state transport department shall directly use the system, for their goal of traffic
control. The transport department shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of smart signals.

DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT:
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENT 
 Python
 Pygame
 Numpy 
 Matplotlib

HARDWARE REQUIREMENT 
 Dual or Quad-core Intel Xeon processor
  16 GB or more RAM
  1 TB or more hard disk storage capacity
  Windows or Linux Operating System


